feat: add doc to compile and run from source code (#19)
alt-research/mach-avs-operator-setup: doc/build-from-source.md

# Build components

> This doc introduces how to build all components from source code, rather then use docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This doc introduces how to build all components from source code.
```

## Architecture

> For architecture, please refer to [mach-avs#architecture](https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs/blob/m2-dev/README.md#architecture)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the architecture, please refer to [mach-avs#architecture](https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs/blob/m2-dev/README.md#architecture)
```

> For the architecture, please refer to [mach-avs#architecture](https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs/blob/m2-dev/README.md#architecture)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the overall architecture, please refer to [mach-avs#architecture](https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs/blob/m2-dev/README.md#architecture)
```

### BLS Signature Aggregation Mode

> We require the following components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following components is required
```

> 1. Run as operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run as an operator
```

> From the architecture, we can know that for different goals, we need the following components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We require the following components:
```

    1. mach-operator-node
    2. mach-operator-verifier

> 2. Run whole system in local testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run whole system in local testnet
```

    1. mach-operator-node
    2. mach-operator-verifier
    3. mach-operator-aggregator
    4. mach-avs-contracts

### ZK Proof Mode

Comming soon

## Code Repositories
1. mach-avs: [https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs](https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs)

    In this repo, we have following components:

    1. mach-operator-node

    2. mach-operator-aggregator

>         > Notice: `mach-operator-aggregator` will migrate to other repo soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        > Notice: `mach-operator-aggregator` will migrate to other respository soon.
```

    3. mach-avs-contracts

2. mach: [https://github.com/alt-research/mach](https://github.com/alt-research/mach)

    In this repo, we have following components:

    1. mach-operator-verifier

## Compile
1. `mach-avs`

>     For mach-avs, it is mainly wrritten in `solidity` and `go`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For mach-avs, it is mainly written in `solidity` and `go`.
```

>     For mach-avs, the main language is `solidity` and `go`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For mach-avs, it is mainly wrritten in `solidity` and `go`.
```

>     For the steps to compile this repo, please check the doc: [mach-avs#build-and-run](https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs/blob/m2-dev/README.md#build-and-run)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For the steps to compile this repo, please check [mach-avs#build-and-run](https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs/blob/m2-dev/README.md#build-and-run)
```

>     For the steps to compile this repo, please lookup the doc: [mach-avs#build-and-run](https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs/blob/m2-dev/README.md#build-and-run)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For the steps to compile this repo, please check the doc: [mach-avs#build-and-run](https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs/blob/m2-dev/README.md#build-and-run)
```

2. `mach`

>     For mach, the main lanague is `rust`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For mach, it is mainly written in `rust`.
```

>     For the steps to compile this repo, please lookup the doc: [mach#compile](https://github.com/alt-research/mach/blob/master/README.md#compile)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For the steps to compile this repo, please check [mach#compile](https://github.com/alt-research/mach/blob/master/README.md#compile)
```

## Run

> We list current suppoted technology stack at here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supported technology stack:
```

|                                       | Opstack(Optimism) | Orbit(arbitrum) |
| :------------------------------------ | :---------------: | :-------------: |
| BLS Signature Aggregation Mode        |   supported       |   comming soon  |
| ZK Proof Mode                         |   comming soon    |   not supported |

> ### 1. OP Stack (BLS Signature Aggregation Mode)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### OP Stack (BLS Signature Aggregation Mode)
```

> ### 1. BLS & Opstack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. OP Stack (BLS Signature Aggregation Mode)
```

#### Run as Operator

> For Opstack rollup, user needs to prepare the `genesis.json` file and the endpoint of this rollup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For OP Stack based rollup, user needs to prepare the `genesis.json` file and the endpoint of this rollup.
```

1. `genesis.json`:

    1. If this chain is an "[op superchain](https://app.optimism.io/superchain/)", and has existed in [superchain-registry](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry), you can use the latest to `op-geth` ([op-geth/releases](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/op-geth/releases)) to get the `genesis.json` file.

        ```bash
        ./geth  dumpgenesis  --op-network=<network name, e.g. op-mainnet>  > genesis.json
        ```

>     2. If this rollup is not part of OP Superchain or unable to locate in [superchain-registry](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry), please ask the project team for help to get the `genesis.json` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. If this rollup is not part of OP Superchain or cannot be located in [superchain-registry](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry), please ask the project team for help to get the `genesis.json` file
```

>     2. If this rollup is not an op superchain or can not find in [superchain-registry](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry), please ask the project party for help to get this `genesis.json` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. If this rollup is not part of OP Superchain or unable to locate in [superchain-registry](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry), please ask the project team for help to get the `genesis.json` file
```

    3. For `op-mach`, this `genesis.json` does not need to field `alloc`, thus, if the field is empty in this file is also ok.

2. endpoint of this rollup:

>     1. The chain id from this endpoint must need to match the chain id in the `genesis.json`. i.e This endpoint must belong to this rollup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. The chain id from this endpoint must need to match the chain id in the `genesis.json`. i.e., This endpoint must belong to this rollup.
```

>     1. The chain id from this endpoint must need to match the chain id in the `genesis.json`. Or in other words, this endpoint must come from this rollup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. The chain id from this endpoint must need to match the chain id in the `genesis.json`. i.e This endpoint must belong to this rollup.
```

>     2. We highly recommend that you run `op-mach` and this rollup fullnode within the same network as it reduces network delays, especially when you set `safe` or `strict` in the `config.toml` file for `op-mach`. (refer to [mach#configuration](https://github.com/alt-research/mach/blob/master/README.md#configuration))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. We highly recommend that you run `op-mach` and this rollup fullnode within the same network as it reduces network latency, especially when you set `safe` or `strict` in the `config.toml` file for `op-mach`. (refer to [mach#configuration](https://github.com/alt-research/mach/blob/master/README.md#configuration))
```

>     2. We strongly recommend that if you can run this rollup fullnode by yourself, because if the `op-mach` and the rollup fullnode can in the same network, it can reduce a lot of network delays for `op-mach` needs to fetch logs of data (stateless proof data) from this endpoint when you set `safe` or `strict` in the `config.toml` file for `op-mach`. (refer to [mach#configuration](https://github.com/alt-research/mach/blob/master/README.md#configuration))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. We highly recommend that you run `op-mach` and this rollup fullnode within the same network as it reduces network delays, especially when you set `safe` or `strict` in the `config.toml` file for `op-mach`. (refer to [mach#configuration](https://github.com/alt-research/mach/blob/master/README.md#configuration))
```

##### Prepare

> 1. mach-operator-verifier: you can get `op-mach` from `mach` repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. mach-operator-verifier: `op-mach` can be found in the `mach` repo.
```

> 2. mach-operator-node: you can get `mach-operator` from `mach-avs` repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. mach-operator-node: `mach-operator` can be found in the `mach-avs` repo.
```

##### Run

1. Run `mach-operator-verifier`

>     1. Prepare the `config.toml`, please refers to [mach#configuration](https://github.com/alt-research/mach/blob/master/README.md#configuration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. To prepare the `config.toml`, please refer to [mach#configuration](https://github.com/alt-research/mach/blob/master/README.md#configuration)
```

>         Please notice the `url` must be the right endpoint of this rollup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Please notice the `url` must be pointing to the RPC endpoint of this rollup.
```

    2. Launch the `op-mach`

        ```bash
        ./op-mach -c <config.toml> --genesis-config <genesis.json>
        ```

2. Run `mach-operator-node`

>     Please lookup the doc from: [RunOperator](https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs/blob/m2-dev/docs/RunOperator.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Please refer to the doc: [RunOperator](https://github.com/alt-research/mach-avs/blob/m2-dev/docs/RunOperator.md)
```

#### Run the whole system in local testnet

For the setup of operator, It is the same process as "Run as Operator"

> Before you run the operator, you need to deploy the contract and run an aggregator before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you run the operator, you need to deploy the contract and run tthe aggregator.
```

> #### Run whole system in local testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Run the whole system in local testnet
```

> For the setups of operatoer, is same as "Run as Operator"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the setup of operator, It is the same process as "Run as Operator"
```

> But before you run the operator, you need to deploy the contract and run an aggregator before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you run the operator, you need to deploy the contract and run an aggregator before.
```

> 1. Deploy the contracts in local testing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Deploy the contracts in local network:
```
